In the last lecture we added lazy loading to our application and we lazy load at the recipes Marchal.
Now let's find out how modules and injection services are connected how it works behind the scenes.
Consider this application.
We get the app module and the feature module like for example the shopping list module which is not
loaded lazily in our app right now.
And the recipes Madrazo and Nambour feature module which is loaded lousily.
Let's say we provide a service log service in this application and we add it to the provider's array
to both the app module and the feature module.
Something I told you you probably shouldn't do but here it won't hurt you if you do it.
What happens is that in the end we have a route injector for the whole application which is created
by angler at the point of time the application starts.
And since this feature module is not loaded lazily but added to the imp or array of the app module basically
there is only one route injector and all the services we provide in either of the modules is added to
the rude unchecked or that means in the application and the whole application.
If you now inject the log service you're going to use one in the same instance and there won't be a
special instance for the feature module here.
Instead again only one route injector is created and that's on purpose.
So that is what happens in this case.
Now if we were to inject this service in the lazy loaded feature module it would there for all to use
this one instance and would use the root injector even though it's loaded at a later point of time it
would still use just because hey there wouldn't Scheckter is created at startup anyways.
So at the launch of the application therefore we would use this instance in the whole application including
the lazy loaded module here.
Now let's consider a slightly different setup.
We have the same components but we get the provider's array on all three modules now including Blazey
loaded feature module 4-D at module and D Eger a loaded feature module.
We will still merge the providers together and basically get one root and check for four days service.
But at the point of time we load delays highly loaded feature Monch all angler will treat a child injector
for this module.
So now we will use a different instance of the log service in this module so in all the components of
this module and thats also on purpose.
This is how angler behaves if you provide a service in a lazy loaded module.
So the fact when you load you lazy or eagerly can change how many instances of a service you are going
to use.
And of course therefore it's absolutely fine to add the provider's service to lazy loaded module but
you have to keep in mind that this will mean you're not going to use the same instance as the rest of
your application does that might be what you need.
It's just important to keep in mind as a side note if you want to enforce Marchal scope in eagerly loaded
modules to then you'll simply have to provide the service on that component of this module.
Remember you could also add the providers array in the component decorator instead of the module that
would then also give you a different or because remember the services section angle or use is hierarchical
and checked her and by providing a service on component level you all to get a child and checked her.
So that is how modules and services injection work.
If we only talk about feature Marchal Now let's add something else to our set up here.
Let's say we don't provide the service here on the lazy loaded feature module.
So we're back to the first use case where we only had the root and Scheckter and we would get this instance
of the service delays loaded future module to remember the first slide.
Let's say we now also have a shared module with a provider's array.
And that is something you should avoid for the reasons I'm going to explain now.
You might expect that this also gets added to the root and Scheckter and it does.
And therefore that delays loaded module of course also uses the same instance but that would be wrong
at the point of time the lazy loaded feature module is added to the application.
So you visited the route which loads it angular we'll give you a child injector because you import the
shared module which provides a service.
So that's the same like on the previous slide where you provide the service directly on the lazy loaded
feature module and hence you get a child injector.
So you get a different instance often service and the lazy loaded feature module and that is probably
not the behavior you wanted.
Because why would you have added a service to the provider's array of a shared module if you didn't
want to share the same instance of the service in the whole application.
I don't really see a use case for this set up.
It's only confusing because you don't clearly see what you're going to get at the point of time you
code your app.
It's really hard to see that coming.
And you get a behavior which you better achieve and the way I showed you on the second slide by directly
providing the service on the lazy loaded feature module if you want to have an exclusive instance for
that module for dead reason you should never provide a service on a shared module don't add providers
on a shared module.
There won't be a use case you want to do this.